Internal organization of computers
	-> every computer can be broken down into three parts
	   CPU, Memory, I/O
	   CPU: the function of the CPU is to execute commands
		and process information stored in the memory
	   I/O: provide means for communicating with the CPU
	-> Bus: a bus inside the computer is a strip of wires
		used to connect different places together
	   Every computer has 3 types of buses:
	   -> Address bus
	   -> data bus
	   -> control bus

	For a CPU to recognize a device attached to it, it must
	be assigned an address. this address must be uniqe to 
	identify the device. when a CPU need to communicate with
	a device it puts the address (in binary) in the address bus
	then a signal putted in the control bus to direct the device
	that the CPU need to read or write from the device in the
	address bus. then the data bus is used to transfear the data
 	from / to the CPU.

	From this we can observe that the data bus must be bidirectional
	while the other two are unidirectional.

	The data bus and the address bus detrimines the capibilty of 
	the CPU.

	The process power of the CPU detrimens by the data bus
	since 8-bit data bus can only send/recieve one byte at 
	a time, a 16-bit data bus can send/recieve 2 bytes at a time.

	The more address bus available the more addressable devices
	can be connected to the CPU(mem, printer, ..etc). So to calculate
	the total number of address can be accessed from the CPU use
	2 power (x) where x is the number of wires in the address bus
	regardless of the size of the data bus. each address can store
	only one byte (CPU are byte addressable).

	CPU has a great relation with the RAM and ROM because they are
	the fastest devices can communicate with. For a CPU to process a
	program this program must be stroed in the RAM or ROM. So the CPU
	first seek the information in them if it is not exist it loades
	them from the dist first and then execute them directly from the
	memory. RAM and ROM are called primary memory, and hard disks are
	called secondary memory.

	Q: How many bytes is 24 Kilobytes?
	A: 24 * (2**10)
	
	Q: What Does "RAM" stand for? How is it used in computer systems?
	A: Random Access Memory. it is used as a temprory storage to store
	   information for the cpu to process.
	
	Q: What does "ROM" stand for? How is it used in computer systems?
	A: Read Only Memory. it is used as a storage for programs and codes
	   that the system depend on and will cause serios problems it is
	   modified.

	Q: Why is the RAM is called volatile?
	A: because all information inside it GONE when the computer is 
	   turned off.
	
	Q: List the three major components of a computer system?
	A: Central Processing Unit(CPU), Memory, I/O

	Q: What a CPU stands for? Explain its function?
	A: Central Processing Unit. it is used to execute and process
	   information stored in the memory.

	Q: List the thre types of buses found in computer systems and
	   state breiefly the purpose of each type of bus.
	A: Address, Data, Control bus.
	   Address Bus: is used as unidirectional bus to allow the CPU
	                to address different devices that are attached to it.
	   Data Bus: is used to send / recieve data from the CPU.
	   Control Bus: is used to control the device that is attached to
		     	the address bus (ethier read or write).
	
	Q: What does "ALU" stand for? What is its purpose?
	A: Arithmatic/Logic Unit. to do basic add, sub, mul, div and
	   logical operators AND OR XOR ...

	Q: How are registers used in computer systems?
	A: used to store data temporarily inside the CPU.

	Q: What is the purpose of teh program counter?
	A: it is used to point to the next instruction for the CPU to fetch.

	Q: What is the purpose of the instruction decoder?
	A: it is the dictonary for the CPU.

	Q: What is a microprocessor?
	A: Is the name of the first CPU working on a chip developed by
	   intel (4004) microprocessor.

